---
layout: post
title: Korea since the pandemic 
---

### Four months have passed since the first confirmed cases of a new coronavirus infection was identified in South Korea. The graph shows how Korea has changed following Corona-19 shock.  





<iframe width="900" height="800" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plotly.com/~looni/14.embed?logo=false&link=false"></iframe>


__1. 20 Jan 2020: The first confirmed case in South Korea__
A 35-year-old Chinese female from Wuhan, China is found to be infected on arrival at the airport. She had a high temperature the day before travelling, but with no history of visiting a live animal market in Wuhan. 

__2. 20 Feb 2020: The first case of large-scale local transmission__
909 new cases are found on 20 February among Sincheonji Church of Jesus members in the southeastern city of Daegu in Korea. It shows that the virus is particularly infectious in crowded and compact spaces. By March 8, the number of infections traced to the church is 4,482. 

__3. 9 Mar 2020: Mask rationing system kicks off__
South Korea launches a mask rationing system. It allows citizens to buy up to two face protective masks from chemists on designated days of the week. Up to 250 masks are supplied to each shop on a daily basis. Due to growing demand, the public has been frustrated to get masks. 


__4. 23 Mar 2020: Impose strict social distancing measures__
As total cases reach nearly 9,000, the South Korean government implement strict social distancing measures for two weeks, meaning schools are closed and all social gatherings are restricted, including festivals, concerts, religious and sporting events to avoid spreading the virus.  

__5. 6 May 2020: Loosen social distancing__
South Korea relax strict social distancing measures as the new coronavirus outbreak slows. For the past 25 days, the number of new infections remains below 50. Under the loosened guidelines, schools, museums and other public facilities will gradually reopen. 








__10 keywords by period__
<iframe width="900" height="800" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plotly.com/~looni/12.embed?logo=false&link=false"></iframe>




#### Will government play a bigger role? 

The new coronavirus was all over the news after the outbreak. To understand the narrative of the news, I extracted over 2000 searchable media reports from Naver News by period and analysed frequently used words since 20 January 2020 when the first confirmed case was reported. 

In the result, “government”, “president”, and “prime minister” appeared frequently. It suggests that people showed a great interest in governments’ response to the pandemic. 

(during the period) From January 21 to early February when the country's first confirmed cases were found, terms related to the origin of the new virus, such as “Wuhan”, “pneumonia”, and “symptoms” were dominant. 

At the end of February, when large-scale confirmed cases occurred at a church in Daegu in Korea, terms related to the explosive cases such as 'Daegu', 'Sincheonji', and ‘self-Isolation' emerged. 

From mid-March, the volume of common terms used to describe governments, such as “president”, “prime minister”, and “government” increased. At the time Italy and Spain were on lockdown and the number of new cases and deaths in the United States increased. 

From the end of March “vaccine” and “cure” emerged as the human trials of coronavirus vaccine began in April. Early clinical trials of vaccine began at Kaiser Permanente Washington Health Research Institute in the US and the University of Oxford in the UK. 

As the uncertainty about the future has increased due to the new virus that no one has experienced, it is expected that the eyes and ears of public opinion will be focused on the decisions of each government for the time being. 










